>> Kadi Kraman: So
this is not really like part of the course
because this isn't like
a course about EAS, but
I wanted to just show you
how that would work if.
S, if you have difficulty setting
up your local environment,
then you can build in the cloud,
and this is the workaround for it.
So EAS is Expo Application Services.
So it is Expo Application Services.
And it is a cloud service,
like a CIT service specifically for
building React Native apps.
So let me show you how you would build it.
So I have the EAS CLI installed
locally already, globally.
So if I do, yeah, so
I have this installed.
So I'm going to EAS in it a new project.
So this will register it on my Expo
account, so I'm already logged in.
And it's asking me if I want to create
a new project called plantly, and
I'll say yes.
And now we do eas build configure.
So this is asking me what platforms
I want to build, so I'll just do all.
And then this creates this
little eas JSON file here.
And this basically sets up the three
main types of build that we might
want to create.
So we have the development build, and
this is the one that you would use for
your local development.
It has development client true,
so it enables the dev menu so
you could load the JavaScript bundle for
your local machine.
And distribution internal,
this basically means that this build will
be directly installable on your device.
The preview build is the same
as the development build.
The only difference is that the
development client is instead the true,
which basically means that you have one
JavaScript bundled into your app and
then that's it, so it will basically
emulate what production will look like.
So if you want to test your app,
your production-looking app without the
dev client, that's the one you would use.
And then production is
a completely different file type,
it has different signing credentials,
it's not directly installable on a device,
but it is for
delivery to the App and Play Stores.
And I do have a section
on build sign in later.
But I will say that for iOS builds,
all of the builds here require for
you to have an Apple developer account,
which is a subscription service
where it costs $99, I think a year.
And this is another thing why being
able to build locally is useful.
Because if you just build
locally your iOS app,
you can run a simulator and
you don't need a developer account.
But you can also do iOS
simulator true,
simulator true.
And this will do a simulator build for
iOS.
So now I do eas build,
profile development platform iOS.
And you can see it didn't prompt
me to log in or anything.
So this is actually now
building in the cloud.
And it's going to run through
all the various steps.
And actually, I can do that, here's
one I did earlier, just to show you.
>> Kadi Kraman: That
it does all the steps.
And the important part is cuz you were
asking whether you would do pre-build if
you're building on CI.
So one of the steps actually is prebuilt.
So this is obviously the service
is very much optimized for
like React Native and Expo.
And it very much supports CNG.
So if your project is set up to
use prebuilt it runs prebuilt.
And that's why it's also very important
to not have your native directories
in gitignore, because if you don't,
it will use the existing directories.
So that's why you can also build
existing React Native apps on here.
So if it does have needed directories,
it will just use those.
>> Kadi Kraman: And this, if you
look at how long this build took, so
it took about four minutes.
And I can actually just build for
Android as well.
>> Kadi Kraman: So this is actually, so
we're gonna talk about build signing
later, but the EAS CLI handles all
the credentials management for you.
So for the Android build,
it needs to generate a Keystore,
which is the security step for
installing it on a physical device, and
it's asking me if I want
to generate a new Keystore,
because it's the first time I'm
running it, so I'll say yes.
But that's how you would
build the same thing on EAS.
Actually, let me show you my,
here's how, here's what I did earlier.
Once it's built, if it is a build
that is installable on a device,
you can download the APK.
So that's why I was thinking about doing
it cuz you were asking where the app
bundle is.
So you can download the IPA or
APK directly from here.
You can install it via QR code,
or you can send this page to someone
else to install via QR code.
Or we also have this
tool called Expo Orbit.
And it's a free tool, and
it lets you install an arbitrary APK and
IPA to a simulator, emulator,
or a physical device.
So I think,
do I have Orbit installed here cuz I do.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
usually we will take those files and
then load them into Perfecto for
the QA team to test them.
So part of this build,
we then push the APK IPA files to
the necessary directories for perfecto.
>> Kadi Kraman: Yes, that makes sense?
Yeah, so Expo Orbit, it looks like this.
And you can, it lists all of
the simulators that I have on my mac.
And actually the fun thing
is if I plug in my phone, so
let's plug in the Android phone.
>> Kadi Kraman: And reopen this.
It actually shows off with
my Android phone as well.
So you could select an APK
from a local file or
select built from EAS, it's quite handy.
So even if you're not using EAS, it's
actually quite a handy little tool for
installing apps on devices,
especially physical devices,
which is a little bit tedious.